---
tags: [pdf, Maya_Tech_Docs]
---

# 📄 褶皱遮罩.pdf

> **一句话总结**：褶皱遮罩技术文档

## 🔗 本地文件
- [褶皱遮罩.pdf](file:///Y:/GGbommer/Lib/PDF/褶皱遮罩.pdf)
- **文件名称**：褶皱遮罩.pdf
- **资源类型**：pdf
- **归属分类**：Maya 技术文档
- **本地路径**：[[褶皱遮罩.pdf]]

> *注：本页面为 AI 深入解析本地 Lib 库后生成的资源智能索引。*


---
### 📄 PDF 提取内容

**文档目录**:
- wscg2008_SHORT_Numbered_.pdf (p.-1)
  - A59-full.pdf (p.-1)
    - A59-full.pdf (p.-1)
  - A67-full.pdf (p.-1)
  - B47-full.pdf (p.-1)
  - E02-full.pdf (p.-1)
  - E07-full.pdf (p.-1)
  - F19-full.pdf (p.-1)
  - F37-full.pdf (p.-1)

**前言/导读**:
Real-time Simulation of Wrinkles  
Clausius Duque G. Reis, José Mario De Martino, Harlen Costa Batagelo 
Department of Computer Engineering and Industrial Automation 
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
State University of Campinas, CP 6101 
13083-970, Campinas, SP, Brazil 
{clausius, martino, harlen}@dca.fee.unicamp.br 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Skin wrinkles add realism and expressiveness to 3D facial animation. Modeling and animation of facial wrinkles 
have been challenging tasks due to the variety of conformations and details subtleness that wrinkles can exhibit. 
In this paper, we describe a method for real-time simulation of wrinkles taking advantage of the processing 
power of current GPUs. Our approach is based on a GPU shader program that uses a simple normal mapping 
approach to apply wrinkles according to influence areas on the face. For efficiency, all the data required for the 
simulation is comprised in 3D textures. We developed a reusable and extensible XNA component that 
implements the shader and tools for generating the necessary 3D textures. Currently, this component uses pre-
computed facial expressions, which are linear interpolated on the CPU. Nevertheless, it can be easily extended to 
other deformation approaches, such as key-frames or virtual muscles, without increasing the amount of texture 
data. We present a description of the developed component, applications and screenshots to illustrate the results. 
Keywords 
Shader, HLSL, Texture arrays, Areas of influence, Wrinkles, Facial animation, XNA. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The display of visual details in virtual models 
can be divided in two distinct approaches: Geometry 
based and texture based, but it is possible to have 
hybrid solutions. With perturbations directly into the 
geometry it is possible to achieve high realistic 
results; however this level of details is directly 
proportional to the necessary number of vertices and 
polygons in the model. On the other side, the use of 
texture de
... (截断)